Moving away from aggregate store (#368)
Eventuous/eventuous: docs/versioned_docs/version-0.15/infra/rabbitmq/index.md

sidebar_position: 5
---

## Introduction

RabbitMQ is a popular message broker, and it can serve as a great integration infrastructure for communicating 
between services. Eventuous supports using RabbitMQ messaging with [producers](../../producers) for producing messages 
and [subscriptions](../../subscriptions) for consuming messages.

> Eventuous producer for RabbitMQ publishes messages to _exchanges_. An exchanges can be considered similar to topics in other message brokers like Kafka or Google Pub/Sub, but, unlike topics, those messages are not persistent. Messages published to an exchange are distributed to queues that _bound_ (subscribed) to the exchange. When an exchange doesn't have any bindings, all the messages publishes to that exchange disappear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eventuous producer for RabbitMQ publishes messages to _exchanges_. An exchanges can be considered similar to topics in other message brokers like Kafka or Google Pub/Sub, but, unlike topics, those messages are not persistent. Messages published to an exchange are distributed to queues that _bound_ (subscribed) to the exchange. When an exchange doesn't have any bindings, all the messages published to that exchange disappear.
```

```csharp
builder.Services.AddSingleton(
    new ConnectionFactory {
        Uri = new Uri(rabbitMqConnectionString)
    }
); 
```

When that's done, you can register the producer by using `AddProducer` extension provided by Eventuous:

```csharp
builder.Services.AddProducer<RabbitMqProducer>();
```

As the producer will create an exchange when it publishes a message but the exchange doesn't exist, you can inform the producer how to configure those new exchanges. To do it, you can register or supply an instance of `RabbitMqExchangeOptions`. Available options are:

| Option       | Description                                         | Default value |
|--------------|-----------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `Type`       | Exchange type                                       | `Fanout`      |
| `Durable`    | If the messages should be stored on disk            | `true`        |
| `AutoDelete` | If the exchange should disappear when it's not used | `false`       |

We recommend using the default exchange options, unless you want to use [routing keys][3] because fan-out exchanges don't support routing.

### Producing messages

> The producer publishes messages to RabbitMQ exchanges. The `IProducer` signature uses the `StreamName` as a destination, the stream name value is used for the exchange name. You can see the stream name supplied to the producer as the exchange name.

Reviewer: seems harder to parse than necessary?

## Subscriptions

Eventuous supports consuming messages from RabbitMQ using [subscriptions](../../subscriptions).

### Configuration

As any other subscription, it can be added to the Di container using `AddSubscription` extension:

```csharp
builder.Services.AddSubscription<RabbitMqSubscription, RabbitMqSubscriptionOptions>(
    "PaymentsIntegration",
    builder => builder
        .Configure(cfg => cfg.Exchange = "payments")
        .AddEventHandler<PaymentsHandler>()
);
```

The `Exchange` configuration property is mandatory as the subscription needs to know where it should consume messages from. Also, the subscription has a mandatory dependency on `ConnectionFactory`, so you'd need to register it in the container as described in the [producer configuration](#configuration) section above.

For consuming messages, the subscription needs a queue bound to the specified exchange. By default, the subscription id is used as the queue name. You can override the queue name by specifying an alternative value using `QueueOptions.Queue` property of the subscription options.

> Besides the queue name, it's possible to configure the subscription with RabbitQ-specific parameters. Those include queue options, exchange options, and binding options. Eventuous provides default values for all those, so usually you would not need to change those. One option that you'd want to change si the concurrency limit value, which is set to `1` by default. As RabbitMQ doesn't guarantee message ordering anyway, you can speed up message processing by increasing the concurrency limit, so the subscription can consume messages in parallel. Eventuous will also adjust the prefetch count to accommodate for increased number of consumers, if necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides the queue name, it's possible to configure the subscription with RabbitQ-specific parameters. Those include queue options, exchange options, and binding options. Eventuous provides default values for all those, so usually you would not need to change those. One option that likely should be overridden is the concurrency limit value, which is set to `1` by default. As RabbitMQ doesn't guarantee message ordering anyway, you can speed up message processing by increasing the concurrency limit, so the subscription can consume messages in parallel. Eventuous will also adjust the prefetch count to accommodate for increased number of consumers, if necessary.
```

> As mention previously, RabbitMQ messages are published to an exchange, and consumed from a queue bound to that exchange. When the subscription starts, it makes sure that both the exchange and the queue exist, and the queue is bound to the exchange. If you start producing messages to an exchange created by the producer before starting the subscription at least once, and there's no queue and binding created upfront, those messages will be dropped. As long as the exchange has a binding to a subscription queue, the messages will be kept in the queue until consumed. Therefore, we recommend starting the subscription before producing messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned previously, RabbitMQ messages are published to an exchange, and consumed from a queue bound to that exchange. When the subscription starts, it makes sure that both the exchange and the queue exist, and the queue is bound to the exchange. If you start producing messages to an exchange created by the producer before starting the subscription at least once, and there's no queue and binding created upfront, those messages will be dropped. As long as the exchange has a binding to a subscription queue, the messages will be kept in the queue until consumed. Therefore, we recommend starting the subscription before producing messages.
```
(qute possibly subscription is actually corrrect)

Author: Should be "as mentioned" :)

Reviewer: fixed, lol!

Author: "Subscription" was correct, subscriber works too, it's just the terminology is "Subscription".

Reviewer: makes sense - reverted!

|--------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Queue`      | Overriders the default queue name, which is set to subscription id by default     |
| `AutoDelete` | Default is `false`, so the queue will survive restarts                            |
| `Exclusive`  | Default is `false`, change it if you want to only have a single consumer instance |
| `Durable`    | Default is `true`, so the queue will be persisted on disk                         |

Finally, you can configure exchange to queue binding using `RabbitMqBindingOptions`:

| Name         | Description                                                                       |
|--------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `RoutingKey` | Optional [routing key][3] for the binding, it doesn't work with fan-out exchanges |

If you set the routing key for the binding but the exchange is configured as fan-out, Eventuous will produce a warning but will create the binding. Routing key specified when producing messages will be ignored for fan-out exchanges.

### Error handling

> Eventuous subscriptions don't throw exceptions when message handler fails. This behaviour can be changed by changing the `ThrowOnError` subscription option. For RabbitMQ subscriptions, this behaviour is extended by using the requeue feature of the broker. Therefore, by default if the message handler throws an exception, the message will be put back in the queue and consumer again later. It helps to deal with transient failures in the message handler, but also severely impacts message processing order as the retried message is put at the end of the queue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eventuous subscriptions don't throw exceptions when message handler fails. This behaviour can be changed by changing the `ThrowOnError` subscription option. For RabbitMQ subscriptions, this behaviour is extended by using the requeue feature of the broker. Therefore, by default if the message handler throws an exception, the message will be put back in the queue and consumed again later. This helps to deal with transient failures in the message handler, but also severely impacts message processing order as the retried message is put at the end of the queue.
```

If you want to ensure that messages are consumed in relative order, you'd need to make sure that message processing is retried inside the handler. Still, if the error doesn't get resolved by retries, the consumer will eventually time out and the message will be put back in the queue. If the message is causing the consumer to fail unconditionally, it is a _poison message_, and it can take put the system into an endless retry loop.

> The requeue behaviour is provided by the default failure handler. It's possible to override it by setting the `FaulreHandler` property of the subscription options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The requeue behaviour is provided by the default failure handler. It's possible to override it by setting the `FailureHandler` property of the subscription options.
```
